Layered Protocols

1.	Physical
	Data Link Layer
	Network
	Transport
	Session
	Presentation
	Application

2.	Advantages
		Simplistic - Layers need not know what happens above and below them
		
	Disadvanages
		Not all applications will fall sctrictly into the application layer, some
		may need more information about the lower and upper layers
		

3.	Session and Network
	Session encrypts all data coming in and out of the application
	Network encrypts the maximum length of data before the headers need to be see at every hop

4.	header fraction = n*h/(n*h+M)

Data-Link Layer Protocols

5.	

6.	Stream of data is broken into frames, so that everyone can have a turn on the network to send data
	i.e. So one large file transfer doesn't lock up the network for a large amount of time

7.	

8.	

9.	

10.	NACKS would only be sent when data was recieved that shouldn't have been, i.e. it is corrupt or incomplete
	Timeout would need to be scheduled to resend data if a NACK has been recieved, or continue sending new data if no NACK appears.
	ACK based protocols are better...

11.	

Network Layer Protocols

12.	

13.	For each node to use the same number, no two virtual circuits could use the same node if they had the same number
	To create a Virtual circuit you would have to know that it could go the entire path as that number
	Instead circuits can change number at each node, to stop one node having two circuits with the same number

14.	

15.	

16.	UDP packets are the best packets for removal. They generally contain data that
	does not need to get to the destination, such as voice and media streams

Local Area Networks

17.	Maximum Frame Length stops one device from taking up all the air time
	Minimum frame Length makes sure that if there is a collision, it will be heard

18.	Ethernet switch will accept data from a line in, then send it out to all the other ports
	Ethernet Hub will connect all the lines together, and the connected devices will have to do collision avoidance themselves

19.	

20.	Wireless networks must employ collision avoidance, as collisions s





